Welcome to my tumblr thingy about the seven day roguelike challange.  My name is [@bruntonspall](http://twitter.com/bruntonspall) and I'm a web scala developer who thought it'd be fun to do a roguelike in my copious spare time.

This post marks the beginning of the project, I guess I should go checkout this [7drl](http://7drl.org) project and get thinking about what I'm gonna do.

Shit!

So I'm 2 days late already.  The 7drl project started on Saturday, and it's now monday night.

So now I need an idea, some things to work on and I have only 5 more days to do it.
Furthermore, I've never successfully completed a roguelike before, I've got a massive project on at work and I'm running a conference on Friday/Saturday, so this is a pretty bad week to start a programming project.

But I get at least 2 hours per day on the train that is undisturbed, I wonder how far I can get with a 12 hours of internet-less development and a few caught hours here and there?

So what the hell am I going to work on?

I know next to nothing about curses style interfaces, and while that could be fun, my expertise is mostly in Scala and web applications.
I've never seen a web absed roguelike done well, and I wonder if there's a good reason for that, or if it's just a latency issue?

So technology wise, I'm looking at technologies I already know, and that work offline. For me that means AppEngine and Scala.  I know them well, AppEngine has a couple of cool features, and I think there's a few cool things I can do to massively reduce latency.


Choosing a theme
----------------

Everybody creates a fantasy roguelike, hell when I was 15 and doing my GCSE's I created a roguelike with elves and orcs for my computer science project. (I got an F, "Games are not real computer programs").  Can we look at another genre?
Here's a few ideas, what would a western look like?  Nah I don't really have an overarching theme for that, mostly because I've never really watched westerns.

How about a SciFi theme?  We could go down the Space Hulk / Space Quest kind of route, generate a random abandoned vessel, have you as the intrepid explorer moving around this vessel, finding aliens, and artifacts.

Alternately we could go down the Elite kind of SciFi, with trading posts, worlds and pirates.  Space Pirates!

Cool, I think we've got a theme, I just need to decide between the two of them.  I feel like the exploring the inside of spaceships has the easiest feel to it.  I can create a spaceship layout generator by just subdividing the hull down, allocating rooms to certain functions, and then randomly populate with aliens.

We can add goals per hulk, so you are trying to go in and get back out, then you do it again.

Secondly, we can start the game with a gun quite reasonably, and I like the idea of being able to shoot stuff in a Roguelike, you don't get to do it often.

Now I need a few basic ideas.  What do I do in my first hour or two at home on a monday night?  I've got a pint of Bitter, I've got a pad and paper and thanks to some DIY this weekend, I've even got a whiteboard.  Let's get designing.

Some tech considerations
------------------------


I'm going to do this system in a Scala/Functional form.  It's going to be web request/response, so I'll need to think how actions and responses can be done.

Let's say that actions equate to a POST to /action with the relevant command.

It'd be cool to be able to play with curl, so we'll stick to an Ascii map, and we'll make sure each action has a single command shortcut.  I want `curl -XPOST -daction=l http://myapp/bruntonspall/action` to perform the action, and return an ASCII rendering of the world.

Obviously we'll also have a HTML rendering, but lets basically do it as a PRE tag with a 40x24 tile ascii display.  We also need a status line, and maybe we'll add some character guff on the webpage later.  For now let's get the basics done.

The final tasklike
------------------

Ok, so we need the following done in the next hour:

   * Create basic webapp (done, I have a g8 template on github)
   * Create a tumblr blog and publish this!
   * Create a fixed ship (we'll skip world building for now)
   * Put our character and 1 monster, 1 treasure on the map
   * Accept an HTTP POST input to move the player
   * Run an AI sequence on each timestep to move the aliens
   * Add the abilitiy to shoot and damage the alien
   * Give the alien the ability to hit and hurt the player
   * Pickup an item by walking over it
   * Detect making it back to the start zone with the item as a Win

That seems like enough to start with, I'm going to work on that, and see how far I can get in the next few hours.
