# Day 04 - Morning - It's fight time

Today I'm going to shoot stuff.  This might be more complex than it sounds.

Stories aren't fun without conflict of some form, and the simplest form of conflict in a roguelike is to kill stuff.
We've already got monsters that meander around the map, so adding the facility to kill them shouldn't be impossible right?

Actually this is going to be a bit more complex than just adding some hit points.  There's a bunch of stuff
I'll need to think about when I do it.

* The user interface - how do I pick what to shoot
* The hit and damage mechanic itself
* Making monsters fight back

## The UI

I don't have a good UI yet anyway, you can select any square to move to, hit execute and you simply don't move,
no warnings, no feedback etc.  Adding shooting to this already broken UI might be interesting.

I think I'm going to extend the broken UI, so if you select a monster and hit execute, instead of moving to the location,
it will interpret that as wanting to shoot at the monster.  It's not a great system, but it'll enable me to get moving.

If I had more time to work on this, I'd probably look at improving the selection system.  It would be nice to be able
to show a character status bar, so you aren't an anonymous @ symbol, and the monsters aren't just M symbols.
I'd add some javascript / client side UI functions to improve the selection of squares.

I'd also quite like to be able to choose between moving, sprinting, shooting and "move and shoot". As a squad, the tactics
that you can do are quite important, but this is a prototype, and we've only got a few hours left, so point and click it is.

## The combat system

Combat systems are fascinating.  RPG's have a lot to answer for in combat systems.  Because of the history of most
games is based on early RPG's, a lot of computer game systems seem to be based on RPG style systems (anything where you
roll to hit, then roll for damage for example).  The problem with RPG combat systems is that RPG's are narrative.
There is a human in a traditional pen and paper role playing game who is narritavely interpreting the combat system.
In dungeons and dragons, missing the kobold by just 1 or 2 might be described as "jumping up on the table, and trading
blows with the kobold sat eating, you swing mightly at him, but he is too quick and darts to the side, with your sword
whistling down where he just say".  In a roguelike it will be described as "you missed".
RPG based combat systems can be simplistic, because all of the complexity can be narrated away by the humans.

That said, the benefit of DnD style combat systems is that they are trivialy simple to implement.  You get a to-hit roll
that you add situational bonuses and penalties too.  Armour prevents hits, not damage, so a nimble thief, and a plate armor
wearing paladin feel like they get hit just as often.  Damage is rolled only on successful hits and is primarily influenced
by weapon type, with some occasional special resistences and penalties applied based on magical whatsits.

We are going to go for a shooting based system for the player and a hand to hand system for the monsters.  I want the player
to end up back pedelling down the corridor, shooting at the encroaching horde of monsters (note: not in the prototype).

My feeling is that from scifi and other movies, I want to see lots more messages like "You hit it, but barely scratched it".

We'll start with a simplistic, you hit 80% of the time.  We'll give the monsters a damage resistence quantity, and make them
resist taking damage from around 50% of shots from the player normally.  That means if we shoot 5 times, we should expect 4 to hit,
but only 2 two do damage.  Given the map, I think giving the monsters the ability to take 2 shots feels about right.

I'm going to use a very simplistic model for now, I want to come back and adjust hit percentages based on range and weapon.
I'd like to allow for shots missing the main target to hit other targets in the cone.  I'll add it all to my mental TODO list.

Let's give it a try

## 1 hour later

You can shoot stuff, and I killed an alien!  I don't think the health is going down properly though when I check the debug logs, so I'm not sure exactly how I killed an alien.

The monsters don't fight back, and I've still got some ui issues about giving orders that will make squad work hard.

_This was made while listening to [Blink 192: Greatest Hits](), a reminder of my youth_
[Seven-Day-Roguelike](http://github.com/bruntonspall/seven-day-roguelike) is a scala and appengine [7-day-roguelike](http://7drl.org) project by [bruntonspall](http://www.brunton-spall.co.uk)


